000.00.000 Stories in Attic Greek
001.01.000 By The Rev. Francis David Morice, M.A.
001.02.000 1883
002.00.000 PREFACE
002.00.001 This book is intended to supply beginners in Greek with materials for construing, easier than Xenophon, more interesting than the disconnected sentences of a Delectus, and better calculated than Aesop to familiarise a young reader with the ordinary vocabulary and idiom of the best Attic prose writers.
002.00.002 Few words or constructions have been introduced which are not of constant occurrence in the most correct Attic authors. Thus the beginner who passes from this book to Xenophon, Thucydides, and Demosthenes, and to the composition of Attic prose on his own account, will have little or nothing to unlearn. On the contrary, he will, it is hoped, find his memory stored with a good stock of precisely those words and phrases which will most often stand him in stead. At the same time, care has been taken not to perplex the beginner with long sentences or difficult idioms. The syntax of an ordinary sentence of simple Attic furnishes sufficient occupation for the intelligence of an average schoolboy; and a real mastery of this, such as it is hoped this book will give him, is a better groundwork for his future studies than a half-knowledge of the mysteries of Anacoluthon, Brachylogia and Ellipsis.
002.00.003 The book consists of stories and passages of simple narrative, which it requires no special knowledge of Greek antiquities or history to understand. To introduce a boy straight from his Grammar to even so simple an author as Xenophon is to plunge him without preparation into a whole world of thoughts and customs of which he knows absolutely nothing. He is bewildered with all the technicalities of Athenian legal procedure and Spartan military organisation, of ancient religious ritual, and a thousand unfamiliar features of Greek political and social life. To such this book will introduce him, not per saltum, but gradually and with preparation. The gulf between his own experiences and the remote world of Classical Antiquity is bridged for him by the explanations introduced in the Text, Notes, or Vocabulary, and it is hoped that with a little assistance from his teachers he will never find himself hopelessly at sea as to the meaning of an allusion or the nature of an event described.
002.00.004 An unusually full Vocabulary of Words and Stems has been supplied, and in the introductory pages entitled ‘Hints to Beginners’ will be found full of instructions to guide the learner in its use. Many boys are retarded in their Greek studies from mere ignorance of the way in which a Lexicon should be used. An augment or a reduplication sets them vainly hunting for words where they will never find them. A teacher who guides his boys to look out their words according to the principles embodied in these ‘Hints’ will save them many a mauvais quart d’heure of wholly useless and uninstructive labour.
002.00.005 The comprehensive character of the Vocabulary makes the addition of a large stock of Notes superfluous. The few which have been given may serve however to save time and sharpen intelligence, and their extreme brevity will leave an idle boy no excuse for neglecting to acquaint himself with them.
002.00.006 English equivalents of Proper Names, which quantities marked where needful, and occasionally with a word or two of explanation, have been added in a Vocabulary of their own.
002.00.007 Augmented and Reduplicated Verbs have been, as far as possible, indicated in the text by the employment of hyphens. And the same method has been employed, after the example of Mr. Phillpotts in his excellent elementary Greek Texts, to distinguish the preposition factor in a compound verb.
002.00.008 Of the Stories, some now appear for the first time in a Greek dress, others are adaptations—usually from the less-read authors of antiquity, as Aelian, Apollodorus, Plutarch, Athenaeus, and Diodorus. Difficult verb-inflections have been altogether avoided in the early Stories, and have been only introduced gradually, and with full assistance from Notes and Vocabulary in the later. The whole book has been arranged into short chapters, of equal or nearly equal length, each possessing sufficient unity to serve as a lesson for a beginner. At the end will be found a series of longer stories, mostly adapted from Thucydides, and narrating interesting episodes in Grecian history. In these the employment of hyphens has been discarded, as it is hoped that the reader, by the time he reaches this part of the book, will have already learned to use the Vocabularies intelligently.
002.00.009 The author wishes to acknowledge the kind and valuable assistance which he has received throughout from his colleague Mr. Arthur Sidgwick. The original conception of the book is in great measure due to his suggestion; and, in its final form, it has received the benefit of his experience and scholarship in a careful revision of the proofs, freeing the text from many blemishes which the author had overlooked.
002.00.010 In preparing this Second Edition, the substance of the book has been left unaltered. Verbal and typographical errors in the text have been corrected; some missing items have been supplied in the Vocabulary; and the Vocabulary of Proper Names has been extended so as to comprise short biographical notices of some of the more important personages mentioned in it.
SB.1 F.D.M. Rugby, 1879.